To finish off this section on completing your profile,
we're going to go below this first box here which as we mentioned is very important,
but talk about some other important areas to fill out on your profile.
The first one and most important,
of course, is your work history and feedback.
Unfortunately, there is nothing you can really do to edit this directly.
You just have to provide a good service to
the clients that you end up finding through this platform.
The only thing I can say about this is make sure that you
understand everyone you work with on Upwork is going to have the opportunity to rate you,
so you definitely want to do the best that you can.
Over-communicate, over-deliver, we're going to talk about
those things in a later video but for this video,
just understand that it's all going to go on your profile.
If you get good reviews,
this is going to be a great asset to your profile and make you a top rated freelancer.
Take the work you do on Upwork very seriously and it'll come back to your profile.
The next one is portfolio,
and portfolio is going to be important or not that important depending on who you are.
I think portfolio is a largely visual thing.
Look at how Upwork are presenting it here.
They've just got an image and a title here.
I've actually updated my profile recently to have
the websites that I've done look nicely and shown off in different screen sizes.
But for something like web development,
or something really technical,
or something that doesn't have a huge visual element to it,
I don't think the portfolio is as big of a deal.
That being said, if you are a designer the portfolio is going to
be very important for you because when people are hiring designers,
they want to know that they can create good designs,
which is largely visual.
If you click into any of these,
you will go into a little bit of an extra section where you can see some skill tags,
a description that I've put in there and a link to the website to check out.
I'm not sure how many clients actually will click on this or even know to click on this,
so this box on the surface layer is very important.
I would make sure good title and just really a good image.
Consider this a place to showcase images of your work.
Like I said, if you are in a field that is highly visual,
you want to make sure you're doing this really well.
Even still with something I do,
there is a big visual element to it as well so I made
sure to display some of the websites I've built here.
Skills is something that you can put up to 10 different tags in and so number one,
I would recommend using all 10 available tags.
There's no reason to leave one out unless it's highly irrelevant,
you can't actually do that skill.
But there's often multiple ways of saying similar things like for instance here,
WordPress and WordPress e-Commerce, PSD to WordPress.
They're all WordPress related so I included them,
and website development sits across all those as well.
Basically, start typing skills that you think might be relevant
and sought after by your clients and stick them in there and see if they're available.
You won't be able to put in your own tags,
only ones that are available to you so you just start
typing and it'll come up with what tags are available,
and just click all the relevant ones.
If you wanted to take this a step further,
you could go on other people's profiles and look at their tags for inspiration.
Again, it's quite a simple section.
Just fill out as many relevant tags as you can.
In the certification section,
there's not much to say about that except for if you do have any certifications,
definitely include them here.
A while back I did an AdWords Display Ads Certification so I
decided to put that in Upwork but it's not highly relevant to what I do.
But again, I don't think it can hurt to have a certification in there.
Down here we have employment history and I actually do have.
That's actually probably not that relevant,
so I should probably remove it.
I haven't edited this section of my profile in
quite a while but we are getting down to the bottom sections here.
My advice for this section,
if you do have relevant employment history,
of course put it in but it's something that comes further down the profile.
The other thing I would say in order to complete your profile,
maybe you don't have any relevant employment history.
What I'd do in that sense,
is just put yourself as a freelancer as a job and just say that,
"I have experience working as a freelance."
Say you're a web developer, freelance developer,
"I have experience working as a freelance designer."
Put that into a job and call yourself a freelance,
whatever it is you do,
and at least that fills that box for Upwork of having some experience and
a client is not going to look at that and dispute that because
you're already demonstrating that you are a freelancer by being on this platform.
It does say employment history but it doesn't necessarily have
to be a situation in which you were employed by a company.
You can put in any work that you've done
here that you think might be relevant and if you haven't got anything,
just put down that you're a freelancer.
Education, again it's like certifications.
If you have it, put it in.
If you don't, don't worry.
But again, you don't need a degree to work on Upwork so if you've done any course,
maybe you've taken my courses on Skillshare
about web development or taken another online course,
maybe you want to include that there.
But, again, like I'll reiterate at the end of this lesson,
you want to make sure that your profile is complete.
The final section is other experiences and in here,
I talk about my online brand, Chris the Freelancer.
I don't consider it work experience because I don't have a client with that.
It's not me being employed by a business or working for a client.
It's just a project that I've done.
But at the same time, it demonstrates certain skills that I have like video production,
web development, seeing I built my own website,
and content writing too because I wrote all the articles on my own blog,
and then I provide a link to check it out.
Here, maybe you want to include some volunteering projects you've done,
some of your own projects that demonstrate what you can do.
This is where you put any experience whatsoever that is relevant to your audience.
Maybe if you are trying to be a travel writer,
you could even put it in travel experience here like,
I've been to this many countries and I understand the world of travel.
Anything that's relevant that's not necessarily work related,
definitely put in there.
That's about it, guys. That's the whole profile.
Again, I want to reiterate that you want to complete all of your profile.
Now, I don't know for sure whether Upwork will promote your profile more or how
much they will by having it complete
but they constantly encourage you to complete your profile.
That shows that it's actually important to Upwork.
Like I said, once you get down to these smaller areas,
you don't want to leave them blank and so if you can
include anything that you can think of that will be relevant,
that's not going to be too out there,
definitely include it and you can see once we go into find work,
which we'll get into in the next few videos.
You can see this bar here saying 100 percent
and that's telling me that I've completed my profile 100 percent.
If you don't have that,
that bar is obviously not at a 100 percent
and it will remind you to complete your profile.
Make sure at the very least,
that you complete your profile as much as possible
because there's two people that you've got to satisfy on Upwork.
There's the client, or groups of people, the client,
and then you've got to satisfy the platform itself, Upwork.
You want to do good by Upwork,
you want to do everything they ask you to do.
You also want to do well by your clients,
which is going to help you and is going to help Upwork.
On the platform, it's all about doing well on the platform,
building experience on the platform,
showing Upwork that you are a great member of their freelancer community.
That's going to help you as well to make sure that you get good support from
Upwork and that your account never gets suspended, God forbid.
Yeah, that's all on the profile stuff, guys.
In the next section,
we're going to talk about actually using this to find work.
I'll catch you in the next video.